# Documentation for Project 1
This data processor will ingest a pre-defined data source and return the transformed data source to the user in a format specified by the user. This repo contains a python file and a csv file. When the user is using this data processor, the python and csv files should exist together locally in the user's directory for this data processor to work. The spotify_taylorswift.csv file in this repo is the pre-defined data source that will be converted to either a CSV, JSON, or SQL format. The spotify_taylorswift.csv is a dataset obtained from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thespacefreak/taylor-swift-spotify-data?resource=download which contains data about Taylor Swift's songs including the song, album name, release date, and the scores that Spotify gives to the songs based on their internal data; the dataset includes scores for popularity, loudness, danceability, etc. Before the data processor converts the file format, it will do some data cleaning on the dataset which reduces the number of columns in the dataset by getting rid of an Unnamed column, creating a song length column that is measured in minutes instead of the miliseconds measurement that the original database used, and renaming columns to help the user better understand the database.

The data processor starts off by asking the user to pick which format to convert the data source to through user input. If the user types CSV, then a new CSV file called csv_tswift_data.csv will be created in the user's local directory as the transformed data source. This new CSV file is different from the original csv data source in that it contains the modifications from the data cleaning that was done on the original file. If the user types JSON, then a new JSON file called json_tswift_data.json will be created in the user's local directory that contains the transformed data from the CSV file in a JSON format. If the user types SQL, then a new database file called tswift_database.db will be created in the user's local directory which contains the transformed data in a sql format. The data processor will then ask the user to type yes if they want to view the contents of the database (from tswift_database.db). If yes is typed then the records from the database will be displayed to the user, if the user types no then nothing will be displayed. After each transformed data source is returned to the user, a message will be returned to the user letting them know that the conversion was successful. The data processor will only do one transformation per run, so for example after converting the data to a JSON format the user will have to run the data processor again to convert the data to a different format, both conversions won't occur in one run. The processor also produces informative errors if it is unable to complete an operation or if a user makes a mistake when entering input. If the user didn't type exacty CSV, SQL, or JSON when prompted for a format, then an exception will be raised letting the user know that they typed the wrong input and only those three options are allowed. If the processor can't convert the data to the expected format, then an exception is caught and lets the user know that the file wasn't able to be transformed to the expected format. The processor also catches a FileNotFoundError exception if the original data source, spotify_taylorswift.csv is not found in the user's local directory since it is necessary for the data processor to work. In the end, the data processor outputs a brief summary of the data file ingestion after it has processed and lets the user know what the number of records and the number of columns in the transformed data source is. The python file in this repo also contains documentation in the form of comments to further explain my implementation of the data processor. 

